create branches if I want to take the game in different directions at various times, with a primary version, cause that way it will be so much easier to transfer code over to the variants. Like moving normal functions to the colored text version and not vice versa.

Can we expand it to also include exclamation marks? There are exclamation marks in combat, rather than periods, which should also be removed when a semicolon or comma goes in its place.

NPC NAMES GENERATOR - json file? maybe group lists together, like a root, center, and stem. Different categories for types of names, silly/nonsense like Boop, Beep-Beep, and normal like Angela, Steve, and themes like video game characters, like Carl, Marcus, Michael, Trevor, Franklin, Aiden 

distraction devices that I can hack, like a speaker, maybe projector too. Themes: metal music 

NPC "uses gun" but does it work

attacks should only happen with a specific weapon, fist fights might be rare or if both NPCs who want to attack each other do not have a weapon, it's a draw/stalemate 

USB for physical hacks, another device for remote hacks 

If drone in player inventory, it can have a first-aid component that heals the player when their health gets low. 


I love the idea that the snatcher sprout could make NPCs say "GIVE ME BACK MY WALLET." Dialogue like that is hilarious, and I don't have a lot of dialogue integrated yet so I'll need to do that. My other favorites are that NPC start worshipping the TIktok Vines, thinking it can predict the future. Maybe it could actually give them commands that they follow, thinking it's their god, by saying things like "the current time is 3:00pm on Sunday, May 4th, 2025. 3pm on Sundays is dancing time." And then the NPCs stop whatever they're doing and dance. Maybe their environment transforms into a dancefloor, and part of the plant (or a plant it communicates with) could become a disco ball. I like the teleportation idea, and that a sunflower could come alive and judge everyone. i think I'll create an NPC that is a plant that acts autonomously. What about Animal Crossing-related ideas? Maybe the Tiktok Vine could act like Isabelle since it would be saying the day and time, which is what Isabelle says during the island announcements. What elements could I add that are reminiscent of Animal Crossing? Can you give me ideas for NPC actions/dialogue, and game mechanics? I think I might want to make living plant NPCs that act like ACNH villagers.

Ice Vine Kills 

SICK COMPUTER THAT DOESN'T LIKE PLANTS 

What Happens When a Computer Encounters Pollen?

Sneezing: The computer forcefully ejects objects from USB ports, charging slots, and even CD drives (if it has them).

Runny Nose Equivalent: It leaks random files onto the screen or spews out unreadable system logs.

Watery Eyes Equivalent: The screen blurs, flickers, or distorts, making text look like it’s "crying."

Congestion Effect: The device slows down and begins generating odd overheating sounds, as if it’s struggling to breathe.

Digital antihistimine makes it not turn on for a few hours 

Sugar, We're Growing Out
Sunshine Root-tide
Linkin Bark - Living things
Ice Vine Kills

Plants could be obsessed with Rock as a genre because of actual rocks, and also the metal-eating plants could thrive on metal music. Maybe there are plants that only like pop/indie, and if metal/rock is played near them, they have a chance of mutating in weird ways or going rogue somehow? And the same rules could apply to the metal and rock plants as well. 

For pop/indie plants: Twenty One Plants - Trees, about literal trees and other plants in bloom
The Sun and Grow, could be about photosynthesis
Weed Me The Horizon, could make songs about plants that grow and spread really fast. 

I love the idea that NPC plants could request songs, and willfully grow or not grow depending on the music that's playing.

"I'm tired of tending to this flower" - Leave The City (need other name for it) - sad gardening song 

Hometown - literally the lyrics, "where we're from, there's no sun / our hometown's in the dark" because it could be about not growing and thriving as a plant when there's not enough sunlight 

next step: more organized plant handling with a way to distinguish between plants so that effects/mutations or harvesting/watering don't go to all of them. Not sure how to do that in a non-repetitive way, but is a numbered system the best method? Like player says "water carrot 1"? 
