Can you look at code in rewrite_old_code.py, create a scalable version of some features, and implement them in more_garden_stuff.py?

We don't have to get everything fully functional immediately, but set up a foundation that we can build on.



Can you extract features from one version of my game and rewrite them to be scalable, then implement them in the new version?
From rewrite_old_code.py, take some of the features, make scalable versions, and implement those versions into RA_main.py. Make sure that the new scalable code you're implementing works with the rest of the game. You can change it to fit the new version of the game, as long as it becomes scalable and functional within the framework of RA_main.py. 

There will be several features that need to be implemented. For starters, here's what I want: 

* NPC class that is easily expandable

* GangMember class for NPCs that are gang members

* create instances of the gang member class, each with a unique name (should be easy to add more, maybe dictionary like areas and items?)

* add gang members to an area (the "warehouse" area should be the territory for a gang called the Bloodhounds)

* detection and combat system for gang members to attack if they detect the player

* player's ability to fight, using weapon items

* if player dies, respawn at home

* class (maybe multiple classes) for hazards: cause effects, don't hurt the player, not always harmful to NPCs but can make them display unusual behaviors, and can cause gang members to not attack the player due to being distracted

* effects include becoming friendly to the player, giving them gifts, and hallucinating





Can you extract features from one version of my game and rewrite them to be scalable, then implement them in the new version?
From rewrite_old_code.py, take some of the features, make scalable versions, and implement those versions into RA_main.py. Make sure that the new scalable code you're implementing works with the rest of the game, RA_main.py. You can change it to fit the new version of the game, as long as it becomes scalable and functional within the existing structure of RA_main.py. 

There will be several features that need to be implemented. For starters, here's what I want: 

* NPC class that is easily expandable

* GangMember class for NPCs that are gang members

* create instances of the gang member class, and assign them to a gang, each with a unique name (should be easy to add more, maybe dictionary like areas and items?). The gang is the Bloodhounds, and you will find the names of members in rewrite_old_code.py.


Great, let's now do the same thing for these next features:
* detection and combat system for gang members to attack if they detect the player

* player's ability to fight, using weapon items

* if player dies, respawn at home


Okay, it's working. The issue was that Hacked Milk had to be an instance of StaticHazard class, not Hazard. The gang members now hallucinate and don't see me, but the feedback messages are very repetitive. It says "The Bloodhounds member [name] is hallucinating and doesn't see you," and repeats that message for every member. I want to change this so that it doesn't spam the player so much. Can you group the responses together, like 


Can you make group results work? I want to see the affect that the hazards have on gang members, but multiple at once so that it doesn't spam the player so much. Right now, it says  It says something like "The Bloodhounds member [name] is hallucinating and doesn't see you," and repeats that message for every member.

Please check for inconsistencies so that we can make these features work:
1. there's a random chance that a hazard (right now just the StaticHazard Hacked Milk) will affect a gang member
2. the specific effect of the hazard is random, so members could have the same hallucination as the other members, or different ones
3. the feedback is grouped together, instead of repeating the same message over and over again. If three members all hallucinate about the same thing, it only says "The Bloodhounds member [name] are hallucinating about [effect]" once.
4. also, this may already be the case, but please make sure there's a solid foundation for me to add more hazards of various types later, with the gang members still affected and the game continuing to give dynamic feedback


Can you update the code that handles gang members' resistance to hazard effects? I added a list of reactions for gang members to have if they were not affected by the hacked milk, meaning they did not hallucinate. I also want to reduce the length of the feedback messages when multiple gang members are affected, so can you change it to only 


In RA_main.py, the feedback messages about NPCs (particularly gang members) are very repetitive. I want to reduce the number of gang members the game lists when describing their actions. I want it to summarize better, in one or two messages, instead of a new message for every action that each NPC makes. First, can you move all NPC-related code to to npc_behavior.py so that it's easier to keep track of? Then make sure everything is imported properly and sufficiently before we move on to the next step. Afterwards, the next step will be to set up a system where the game summarizesNPC behaviors (like if gang members detect/don't detect the player, if they attack, etc) into a few engaging and non-repetitive sentences before printing it. This will mean not mentioning the actions of *every* NPC, and instead shortening it to a few interesting sentences. 


I love that it groups multiple NPCs together by listing a few names at a time, and then also says "and [X] others" when describing NPC actions. This is a great approach to making the game less repetitive and more interesting. Do you have any other suggestions for summarizing and making other game messages more interesting?
I want to refine the attack system in two ways:
1. members of the same gang should not attack each other
2. I want more unique and varied attack messages, like instead of "[NPC name] attacks you for [X] damage", I want something more descriptive language for attacks and damage, like "[NPC name] swings wildly at you, leaving you mildly injured". Instead of a number for how much damage the player took, or how much health they have remaining, the game should use more descriptions of the player's state, like "you're badly hurt", "you're battered", or "you feel like you might pass out" when the player's health is low. I want descriptions like that, but more creative and engaging. There should be descriptions that correspond with health ranges, like "mild injury" variations for 75-100% health, a little more serious for 25-50% health, critically low for 1-25%, and creative/interesting death + respawn messages. For the death/respawn, it could say "you passed out and a medical drone carried you home"

other improvements: 
1. when it lists the people nearby, it should specify what type of NPC and use the same summarizing method as before. 
For example, summarize by grouping types of NPCs together: 
"You see the following people: 
Bloodhounds members Noodle, Flop, Squirt, and 11 others. You also see 3 civillians." 


Next steps to improve NPCs:
1. NPC action continuity: the game should keep track of NPC actions so that they don't do too many things in a single turn. 
For example, the game said "Noodles is Standing around," and then immediately said "The Bloodhounds member Noodle presses Knife into
your hands." It would sound better if the game combined these two actions into one message, 
like "Noodle is standing around, and presses their Knife into your hands." The game 
should know how many actions an NPC has taken before printing any of it, be more restrictive about 
how many actions an NPC can take in a single turn, and combine them into a single message.

2. NPCs should be able to interact with the world, like randomly pick up items and use them the way they were intended.
For example, if seeds are nearby, and there is soil, they might plant them. I want to add depth and realism to the game this way.




We have a great system for NPCs so far, but I've noticed some areas that need improvement. 
I think there's an issue with NPCs doing multiple actions in one line, because I'm seeing messages like
"The Bloodhounds member Gus-Gus is , and hallucinating." which makes it seem 
like the game thinks the NPCs are doing more than one thing, but they only do one. I'm also seeing ones like 
"The Bloodhounds member Flop is hallucinating and hallucinating", so I think it's trying to describe multiple
different actions when the NPC actually did the same thing twice.
I think this is because the game is not properly keeping track of the number of actions an NPC has taken. I noticed that the game limits the number of actions an NPC can have, which is good, but then it prints as if the NPC took multiple actions. This may be the cause.  
I want two things:

1. Can you make sure that the game can check if the NPC has taken only one action, and if they have, describe it accordingly?

2. Can you give NPCs an ability to use items in the world, 
like seeds and soil, to plant them? I've seen that some NPCs were "using the carrot seed" but 
didn't plant it. I want them to influence the world, including planting seeds. 


Help me expand my game, Root Access, which combines elements of games like Animal Crossing and Watch Dogs 2
in a wacky and entertaining way. NPCs are a core element of the game. 
The gang members will sometimes act like silly villagers, while other times they will be ruthless and want to attack the player, 
or members of other gangs (once implemented). The gang members switch back and forth between silly and aggressive randomly, 
which is good. Some key features of the game will include NPCs having an impact on the environment, 
like the ability to pick up/drop items, plant and water crops, eat, and use other items with real functionality. 
Gardening will be a huge element, as will hacking. Another key aspect of NPCs is that they should react to things in the environment,  
including the player's actions, other NPCs, and general chaos. The overall goal for NPCs is to cause chaos and be entertaining, 
while making the game feel alive and immersive. Above all else, always remember to help me make 
features of the game as scalable as possible. 


max_summary_parts for number of actions NPC per turn

Very great progress, definitely not spamming but also not properly displaying feedback messages the way I want. I specifically tried to heavily restrict the max_summary_parts to 1, so that the NPC only does one action per turn. However , the game still seems to be printing out multiple actions. I think this is because the max_summary _parts is being reset every time the game prints out a message. I want to make sure that th s max_summary_parts is not being reset, so that the NPC only does one action per turn.


NEXT EXCITING FEATURE TO IMPROVE:
/game_programmer can you modify npc_behavior.py (and RA_main.py if necessary) to make NPCs trigger hazard items? If an NPC 
picks up the glitter bomb, there should be a high chance that they trigger it, which would cause the gift-giving effect. 
I see that there's already code for item interactions, which works great, but it doesn't seem like it's possible for NPCs to 
trigger hazards. 

First priority: reduce duplicates by making sure that the NPC only does one action per turn. for example, this is what I saw in a single turn:  
"The Bloodhounds members Bubbles, Gus-Gus, Beep-Beep start singing 'I Will Survive' at the top of their lungs!
The Bloodhounds members Bubbles, Gus-Gus, Beep-Beep start talking to inanimate objects."


/game_programmer we need to make more adjustments to reduce duplicate messages for NPC actions. 
Help me make sure that the NPC only does one action per turn OR every action by a single NPC is grouped together. 
for example, this is what I saw in a single turn:  

"The Bloodhounds members Bubbles, Gus-Gus, Beep-Beep start singing 'I Will Survive' at the top of their lungs!

The Bloodhounds members Bubbles, Gus-Gus, Beep-Beep start talking to inanimate objects."

These are the alternatives that I want: 
1. group them together in one sentence that is closer to natural language - 

"The Bloodhounds members Bubbles, Gus-Gus, Beep-Beep start singing 'I Will Survive' at the top of their lungs, then start talking to inanimate objects."
2. only print one action per NPC per turn, and leave out any further actions - 
"The Bloodhounds members Bubbles, Gus-Gus, Beep-Beep start singing 'I Will Survive' at the top of their lungs."

Which one would be the simplest to implement? Right now I want to start with the most efficient option, just to prove that we can get it working, and then worry about scalability after. 


        # CHANGING NAMES IN A WACKY WAY

        name_variations = ["etti", "oodle", "op", "eeky", "-eep", "uffin", "bertmo", "athur", "ubble", "uck"]

        def generate_name_variations(names, variations):
            """Replaces last character in each name with a random variation."""
            new_names = []
            for name in names:
                variation = random.choice(variations)  # Pick a random suffix
                modified_name = name[:-1] + variation  # Remove last character and append new one
                new_names.append(modified_name)
            return new_names

        # Generate modified gang names
        modified_bloodhound_names = generate_name_variations(bloodhounds_names, name_variations)

        # Print new gang member names
        for name in modified_bloodhound_names:
            member = GangMember(name, f"A member of the {bloodhounds_gang.name} gang.", bloodhounds_gang)
            self.npcs[name] = member
            bloodhounds_gang.add_member(member)



Okay, I think that helped significantly. The next thing to improve will be the way NPCs interact with items, because multiple NPCs picked up an item in a row, and when the first one picks it up, it should be removed from the area and placed into that NPC's item list. For example, instead of "Muffiathur examines the USB stick carefully.
Binky examines the USB stick carefully.Puddles examines the USB stick carefully," it should just be 
"Muffiathur examines the USB stick carefully" because Muffiathur was the first one to pick it up and 
therefore it goes into their inventory, which means the other NPCs wouldn't see it. 

next plan: make sure the game prints feedback about important stuff, like NPCs picking up items and interacting with them, 
and don't prioritize idle actions as much. 

I might wanna prepare for all NPCs to be affected by hazards, not just gangmembers. Not sure yet. 



side note: gift-wrapping mechanic idea

Adding a New Gift-Giving Mechanic
If you wanted to add a new mechanic where NPCs can gift-wrap items:

Add a "wrapped" attribute to items
Create new message templates for wrapped gifts
Add the new patterns to the message detection system
No changes needed to the core deduplication logic



v21 works perfectly, still checking if NPCs can actually set off glitter bombs. 
If successful, next step is to allow them to water plants when holding a watering can. Another thing to prioritize is
making sure the game gives messages about important actions that NPCs take, like I want it to always tell me
when an NPC plants a seed, and eventually they'll be able to water the plants, and I'll want to know when they do, or if they give me an item as a gift. 
Picking up items and looking at them is not as important. 


To achieve this, we can implement a notification system that triggers messages for significant actions taken by NPCs, 
such as planting seeds or watering plants. This will enhance player awareness of the NPCs' significant
activities and ensure that their interactions with the environment are meaningful and impactful.

We can prioritize these notifications by creating a centralized logging function that captures
and formats messages for significant actions, ensuring they are displayed to the player in a 
clear and concise manner.

I like that the game only prints a few NPC messages at a time, and it took a lot of work to make sure that
it wouldn't spam, so idk how to override that and make it always tell me about important actions. And idk how exactly
to define important actions in a scalable way since there will be several different ways for NPCs to interact with the environment.

One approach could be to create a priority list of actions that are deemed important, such as planting seeds, watering plants, or giving items as gifts. We can then modify the existing message printing system to check against this list before deciding to print a message. This way, we maintain the current message limit but ensure that important actions are always communicated to the player. Additionally, we could implement a tagging system for actions, allowing for easy updates and scalability as more actions are added in the future.

What if we added a notification system that acted similarly to notifications on a device? Like if it captures important NPC actions, and tells the player that there are notifications (or say it in a more interesting way), but don't let them read the notifications until they say a specific action? This way, they will get all the information, but on their terms, which prevents a sudden flood of spam. We could introduce a "notification bell" mechanic that alerts players when significant events occur, allowing them to check the notifications at their leisure. This approach ensures they remain engaged without overwhelming them with constant updates.

To implement this, we can create a NotificationManager class that handles the collection and display of notifications. 
This class will maintain a queue of important actions and provide methods to add notifications and retrieve them when requested. 
Additionally, we can integrate a visual or audio cue to signal when new notifications are available, enhancing player engagement 
without causing spam. I wonder if it would be possible to implement a visual aspect within the text-based game format. 
changing the color of the text, like green text when there's a new notification?
We could also consider using symbols or icons alongside the text to indicate new notifications, such as a small bell icon 
that appears next to the message. This could visually signify to players that there are updates without being intrusive to the 
overall gameplay experience.


a notification tagging system could be done by associating each notification
with a specific action type, allowing for filtering and prioritization based on the importance of the action.
For example, planting seeds, watering plants, gifting items, and triggering hazards.

Maybe notifications could be recieved through the smartphone? Players could receive notifications through a smartphone interface, allowing them to view updates on important NPC actions and events in real-time.


Okay, test notifications work, but I'm not sure if real notifications still work. I guess they do if the test was successful, 
but I haven't seen any. I expected messages about NPCs interacting with items to be a notification, 
but I got them multiple times as a regular message.


I want to divide all game messages into 4 categories: 
1. should be notifications (NPCs interact with items in significant way, like planting seeds or giving player a gift, 
as well as other events that may occur)
2. should always be shown in the game (reflect player actions like item interaction, player attacking/being attacked in combat)
3. limited to prevent spam but should be shown occasionally to enhance immersion, like NPCs performing idle actions or minor interactions, and the way they're affected by hazards (e.g., messages with "affected:hallucinations" are not that interesting or important)
4. least important, rare or never shown (player not detected by NPC, NPCs not affected by hazards)

Can you create a scalable design for organizing game messages so that I can centralize control and keep 
spam/uninteresting messages to an absolute minimum? I especially want to significantly reduce how many messages the game gives me 
about how NPCs are affected by hazards. This should include the descriptions, so when the player uses the "look" command, it should only show very minimal descriptions about minor NPC interactions (idle, talk) and hazard effects



I just realized that a lot of the repetition is when I use the "look" command, because I guess the descriptions of the 
area involve lots of messages about NPCs. To address this, we can implement a filtering mechanism for the "look" command that 
reduces redundancy. This could involve gathering all relevant NPC actions and 
summarizing them into a single message, such as 
"You see Muffiathur examining the USB stick." This way, we can maintain 
immersion without overwhelming the player with repetitive messages.


SUCCESS: NPCS no longer spam me with actions when I disable them in the behavior settings, so the next thing will be to actually make them do fewer actions based on my specific frequency commands. 

Combine actions like "looking the other way" with the "standing around" list, because they both seem like idle actions, and distracted/unnoticed actions are redundant because if they're idling, they're not noticing. 

before proceeding much further, check if the current design is scalable for more types of NPCs. I might want to eventually control actions of NPCs by type. I want to ensure that the game as a whole is prepared to handle other types of NPCs. 


I want to create an effect summary string to avoid spam while also showing the player descriptions. Use the "[name], [name], and [X] others" format when applicable. We can do this by gathering the relevant NPC actions and summarizing them into a single message format. This approach will help condense the information while still providing the player with essential details. I especially want to focus this approach on effects, like hallucinations.


I want to create a way to combine multiple effect statements into one message, which is the way to make it a proper summary. 
For example, "You see Muffiathur and Jaxx experiencing hallucinations, along with 3 others." 
There should be a description of the effect, like a specific hallucination. if every NPC hallucinates differently, 
it should choose ONE of the hallucinations to print. For example, "You see Muffiathur experiencing vivid illusions of butterflies, along with 3 others."
Another way would be "you see You see Muffiathur and Jaxx experiencing hallucinations, along with 3 others. Muffiathur sees vivid illusions of butterflies." 

How can we ensure that only one effect description is shown, and that both sentences (the members experiencing it, plus the effect itself) are combined into a single message? 
We can achieve this by maintaining a list of unique effects for each NPC and selecting a primary effect to display in 
the summary message. 

When generating the summary, we can iterate through the NPCs experiencing the same effect, count them, 
and then format the message accordingly. This ensures that we only show one effect description while effectively summarizing 
the actions of multiple NPCs. 

We could implement a function that gathers all NPCs experiencing hallucinations, selects the 
most common hallucination, and formats the message to include both the NPC names and the selected effect description. 

This function would ensure clarity and reduce message clutter, enhancing the player's experience while maintaining engagement 
with the game's narrative. 

If every hallucination is different, or multiple are equally common, just choose one at random. 
We can achieve this by implementing a function that collects all hallucination effects from the NPCs, counts their occurrences, 
and selects a primary effect to display in the summary message. This function will ensure that we only show one effect description while effectively summarizing the actions of multiple NPCs.
If there are multiple unique effects, we can randomly select one to maintain variety in the messages.
Is the system currently set up to gather all NPC actions before printing them to the player? If it is, then we are ready to proceed without additional filters or modifications.






Let's focus on the files in the simplified_scalable_improvements folder, with RA_main.py as main, and others 
like message_system and message_coordinator to determine what kinds of feedback messages the game gives the player. 
In the category_mapping dictionary, in message_coordinator.py, I noticed that there are categories like general and player, 
which give the player notifications that are unnecessary, like in the player category it said "you teleport to warehouse", 
which it already told me as a regular feedback message. For the general category, it said "the hazard has no effect on anyone", 
which should be said rarely if at all, and should be a regular feedback message. The notifications system is meant to organize 
information that the player needs, and keep it separate but accessible so that it doesn't overwhelm the player with lots of 
messages at once. They can choose to look at notifications if they want to, which prevents spam, and for now it should ONLY be 
about special interactions with NPCs. For example, acceptible notifications include "[name] gave you a [item]", since that tells 
them why a new item is in their inventory, an NPC gave it to them. I want to get rid of most notification categories, but I will 
expand it in the future. The only categories for notifications should gift, where the NPC gives the player an item, or gardening, 
where an NPC plants a seed in nearby soil (or eventually waters it, not yet implemented).

I feel like the behavior/notification/message system is too complicated. 
I just want the game to keep a few kinds of messages separate, like NPCs giving them gifts, or NPCs interacting with items 
in a way that affects the game, like setting off a hazard by accident, and planting/watering seeds in nearby soil. I want to
make NPCs do actions less often, but the ones they do repeatedly, like being idle (basically doing nothing), are not important enough to tell the player about.
notifications are for NPC-only, regular game messages can include other NPC actions, but should be limited and controlled.

we can make NPCs do actions less often by adjusting their action frequency settings in the game configuration. We can change
the default action frequency in the code by setting the desired action frequency in the NPC behavior configuration file.

I'm actually not sure if there are any actions that need to be suppressed at this point or if it's just game messages
that need to be more controlled. I will check the action frequency. 


files in this path are not messed up, but changes in another folder made it way more complicated: 
scalable_overhaul/game_with_json/better_NPC_control/msg_system-v3.py

as long as it's still scalable, since I can change the frequencies later, I will assume that nothing needs to change as
far as actual behaviors, and stick to getting game messages under control. 




in the files in the folder simplified_scalable_improvements, 
I want to get the game messages and notifications under control. Let me know if there's anything you can find that 
should be fixed. Here are the improvements that I know we need to make: 1) NPC behavior types should combine "plant", 
"water", and "harvest" into a gardening category. 2) the game should rarely (if ever) tell the player that the NPCs don't 
see them. 3) unnoticed_messages, looking_away_messages, and distracted_messages should be combined into one category. 
Messages about the player not being detected get too repetitive, so they should be rare. 4) the message "so high that they 
don't see you" is from the hazard hallucination effects, but resembles an undetected/unnoticed message, and gets repetitive. 
It should be rare. 5) notifications should ONLY tell the player about NPC interactions that affect the game, which 
are the following: 1) giving gifts to the player 2) planting/watering/harvesting plants (gardening actions) 3) triggering hazards 
(like interacting with the glitter bomb and making it explode). What should we do first to accomplish these?


I want the game to collect every NPC action BEFORE printing any of them, because it needs to know all the actions so that it can 
group them together. It still says things like 
"Bubbles looks for the Glitter Bomb, but it's no longer there.
Boop looks for the Glitter Bomb, but it's no longer there.
Squirt looks for the Glitter Bomb, but it's no longer there." It should know that 3 NPCs looked for the same item BEFORE printing
any of them, and say "Bubbles, Boop, and Squirt look for the Glitter Bomb, but it's no longer there."
We should implement a function that aggregates NPC actions and summarizes them before sending the output to the player. 
It currently combines SOME actions that multiple NPCs do, but this needs to be a more universal thing 
across every action to ensure clarity and reduce redundancy in player messages.

I think the game keeps the list of notifications and doesn't clear itself automatically, because it says "remaining unread: 0" but still lists all previous notifications every time I view them. We should implement a mechanism to clear notifications after they have been read to prevent clutter and ensure that only new notifications are displayed.


I think message/notification systems are too complicated. Let's focus on messages first since they're still not doing what I want. I just want it to know if multiple NPCs are doing the same 
action BEFORE printing, and compare the action of every NPC to all the others before printing. This should be done every single time, with every single action, and every single NPC. If there 
are any actions that are in the same category, combine them into one message and list all names or "and [X] others" if there are a lot of NPCs. When the game gives messages about what NPCs are 
doing, I want to list every action in one single message. It should be more organized and clean this way by bringing all the NPC actions together before showing to the player. If there is currently
implementation for this, it is not working properly. What is the fastest and easiest way to do this? we can worry about scalability later, but let's just get it working first. 


special interaction words for items:

A note:
writing/doodling on, reading, tearing up, making a paper airplane out of, shredding

NPC summaries are FINALLY working the way I've wanted for so long, and the next thing is to combine them even more. I need
to see what's going on with hallucination descriptions because I haven't seen one in a long time, and I don't wanna
keep seeing the "[names] are affected by [hazard]" because it's boring and repetitive. 

This is a perfect way to combine multiple actions from one NPC: "Beep-Beep takes the USB stick after looking around."
